# Classes
## Class Organization
Common Java convention is that a class should begin with a list of variables. Public static constants, if any, should come first. Then private static variables, followed by private instance variables. It is seldom a good reason to have public variable.

public functions should follow the list of variables. Then we put the private utilities called by a public function right after the public function itself. (The _Step Down Rule_). Here's an example:
```java
public class Dispatcher {
	public static final int MAX_RECOMMENDATION_NUMBER = 10;
	private static final int MAX_RETRY_TIME = 3;
	private Map<Integer, Recommendation> woId_to_recommendation;
	
	public void dispatch(){
		int affiliateCount = getAffiliateCount();
		//implementation
	}
	
	private getAffiliateCount(){}
}
```

## Class should be small!
We use line of code to measure how small is a function. However, here for a class we count _responsibility_.

The name of a class should describe what responsibilities if fulfills. We should also be able to write a brief description of the class in about 25 words, without using the words, _"if", "and", "or" or "but"_. We should make sure the responsibility of a class is at best 1.

## Cohesion
In general the more variables a method manipulates the more cohesive that method is to its class. A class in which each variable is used by each method is maximally cohesive. It is neither advisable nor possible to create such maximally cohesive classes. On the other hand, we would like cohesion to be high.
### Maintaining cohesion results in many small classes
When class lose cohesion, split them! Breaking large function into many smaller functions often gives us the opportunity to split several smaller classes out as well. This gives our program a much better organization and a more transparent structure.

## Organizing for Change
Example:
```java
public class Sql {
	public Sql(String table, Column[] columns)
	public String create()
	public String insert(Object[] fields)
	public String selectAll()
	public String select(Column column, String pattern)
	public String select(Criteria criteria)
}
```
The Sql class must change when we add a new type of statement. It also must change when we alter the details of a single statement type. We can change the code to the following:
```java
abstract public class Sql{
	public Sql(String table, Column[] columns)
	abstract public String generate();
}
public class CreateSql extends Sql {
	public CreateSql(String table, Column[] columns)
	@Override public String generate()
}
public class SelectSql extends Sql {
	public SelectSql(String table, Column[] columns)
	@Override public String generate()
}
public class SelectWithCriterialSql extends Sql{
	public SelectWithCriterialSql(String table, Column[] columns, Criteria criteria)
	@Override public String generate()
}
```
After the change, when it's time to add update statements, none of the existing classes need change.
