# Boundaries
We seldom control all the software in our systems. Sometimes we buy third-party packages or use open source. Other times we depend on teams in our own company to produce components or subsystems for us.
## Use Third-Party Code
Example:
```java
// original code
Map<Integer, Sensor> sensors = new HashMap<Integer, Sensor>();
...
Sensor s = sensors.get(sersorId);
```
There is a problem that Map provides more capability than we need or want. Passing an instance of Map liberally around means that there will be a lot of places to fix if the interface to Map ever changes. You may think it’s impossible. However, it was changed when generics support was added in Java 5.
```java
// cleaner option
public class Sensors{
	private Map<Integer, Sensor> sensors = new HashMap<>();
	public Sensor getById(int id) {
		return sensors.get(id);
	}
}
```
## Exploring and learning boundaries
Learning tests are better than free. In learning tests, we call the third-party API, as we expect to use it in our application. We’re essentially doing controlled experiments that check our understanding of that API. The tests focus on what we want out of the API.

## Using Code that Does Not Yet Exist
**_Adapter Pattern_**

Example:
You're writing a controller **PersonController** and within it, you need to call a not yet existing API **NameCardAPI**.
Now, what you should do is to define the interface first:
```java
interface NameCard{
	public String printName(String name);
}
```
Then you create an implementation of the interface yourself just for testing purpose.
```java
public class FakeNameCard implements NameCard{
	@overwrite
	public String printName(String name){}
}
```
Then you go ahead to finish your work for the controller and test. A week later, the Transmitter API **_NameCardAPI_** finally reach you. Now, what you need to do is to write an adapter to adapt this API to your pre-defined interface.
```java
public class NameCardAdapter implements NameCard{
	@overwrite
	public String printName(String name){
		NameCardAPI api = new NameCardAPI();
		String firstName = getFirstName(name);
		String lastName = getLastName(name);
		return api.printName(firstName, lastName);
	}
}
```
Then you may change the injection of _NameCard_ from _FakeNameCard_ to this _NameCardAdapter_.