# Unit Tests
## The Three Laws of TDD
* **First Law** You may not write production code until you have written a failing unit test.
* **Second Law** You may not write more of a unit test than is sufficient to fail, and not compiling is failing
* **Third Law** You may not write more production code than is sufficient to pass the currently failing test

## Clean Tests
What makes a clean test? Three things:
**Readability, Readability, Readability**

I think sometimes writing unit test is more like writing production code. It must still be simple, succinct, and expressive. However, the standard should be different.

### One Concept per Test
Sometimes you may heard that every test function should have one and only one assert statement. I think it is a little bit hard to achieve. The better rule is that we want to test a single concept in each test function.

### FIRST
Fast, Independent, Repeatable, Self-Validating, Timely

## Problems with TDD in reality
However, the fun phenomenon is that after training for TDD, we use TDD for a while but never talk about it some time later in real work. Here's some of the reasons:
* When seeing requirement, you come up with the implementation and write it as soon as possible so that you will not forget it.
* You know how to implement the requirement, but you don't know how to write test cases.
* You need to meet the deadline and you think it will take a lot of time to write test cases.

### Code Coverage
I think the most important concept should be code coverage as we need to fit some standard. However, the true coverage we want is the percentage of function's behavior and use case in all real scenario. If we can cover all of the use cases, the test will give us more confidence.
### Private Method
I fall into this question when I first writing unit tests. Should a private method be tested? Sometimes we have true logic within the private method. There are some article online telling you that you can use reflection as a work around to test private method. Don't do that!

The answer to this question is **No**. However, if you really have logics in your private functions, you're encouraged to extract these private functions to a utility class.


